# Emissions-and-Equality
Emissions and Equality: Optimizing Car Locations for Colorado Car Share - Abstract

Car sharing programs, like the nonprofit, federally funded organization Colorado Car Share (CCS), offer an innovative solution to lower the ownership costs of personal vehicles while concurrently contributing to emissions reduction through short term car rentals. To expand these programs, an easier way to find the ideal locations for new vehicles is needed. As the funding for non-profit organizations can come with stipulations on how it can be spent, any model created needs flexibility to allow for them to focus on the target demographic(s) of each grant they receive. 
We created a linear model that uses US Census tracts to divide the city of Denver into regions. Using population density, and restrictions chosen by the user, it identifies how many vehicles should be added to each tract. This model can be weighted by inputting a variety of factors to locate where the maximum number of people in a particular group may live. We used data from the Denver Open Data Catalog cross-referenced with the current vehicle locations listed on Colorado Car Share’s public website. 
We focused on adaptability given the broad range of stipulations which can be placed on the grant money they receive so, unsurprisingly, we found that the answer depends on the inputs chosen by the user. Our policy recommendations after seeing our results would be to have the city work with CCS to find locations within the identified tracts which allow federal grant money to reduce the cost to build them as well as increase funding/ease of building charging capable carshare spots for new electric vehicles around Denver. By identifying regions that best fit the funding criteria, it allows the city to expend less resources identifying possible locations for charging capable carshare spots and can possibly help to cover the cost of their construction as well. 


